[birds chirping]
[SURPRISED]
Hm. Wonder what
that noise was?
Huh? What noise?
‐ I didn't hear anything.
‐ Hm.
[CURIOUS]
Maybe you imagined it.
No. I definitely
heard something.
Hm.
[SURPRISED]
Was tha..
Both of your tummies
are rumbling.
[laughing]
Huh?
Wait a minute.
I hear something now.
[all gasp]
[laughing]
[screaming]
That was close.
‐ What is that guy's problem?
‐ Out of the way!
[all gasp]
If Officer Jenny's
after that guy..
Then that crazy driver could
possibly be a wanted criminal.
‐ There could be trouble.
‐ Let's go and check it out!
[DETERMINED]
♪ I wanna be the very best ♪
♪ Like no one ever was ♪
♪ To catch them
is my real test ♪
♪ To train them is my cause ♪
♪ Pokémon gotta catch them all ♪
♪ It's you and me ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪
♪ I know it's my destiny ♪
♪ Yeah you're my best friend ♪
♪ In a world we must defend ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪
♪ Gotta catch 'em all ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪♪
ASH "TO CATCH A
POKEMON SMUGGLER!"
NARRATOR As our heroes
continue their journey to
Cyllage City
and Ash's next
Kalos Gym battle
they've witnessed
a police chase
and now rush to assist
Officer Jenny!
OFFICER JENNY
'Hey! Stop the car!'
Like I'm gonna listen
to what you say.
Give me a break, Jenny.
Come back here.
Diggersby, use Mud Shot!
[FOCUSED]
[MUD SHOT MOVE]
See ya later!
[laughing]
My valuable merchandise!
It fell off!
It can't be! No!
Come back here!
[panting]
Uh, I can't go on.
Clemont! Get a grip.
[ANNOYED]
Are you all right?
Uh, Clemont? How're you doin'?
Huh?
Something's crawling
out of there.
[STARTLED]
Never seen that before.
Scatterbug.
The Scatterdust Pokémon.
'When attacked
by another Pokémon'
'Scatterbug scatters
the black powder that covers'
'its body and regulates
its body temperature.'
[ANGRY]
It looks like it's trying
to scare us off.
You don't have to worry about us
hurting you, Scatterbug.
Where's your friends?
[CARING]
[WEAK]
‐ Ah. Scatterbug!
‐ Scatterbug looks kind of weak.
We'd better hurry and take it
to a Pokémon Center!
I'll look it up.
It's over this way.
‐ Come on!
‐ Okay, let's go!
[URGENT]
[panting]
[tires screeching]
Hm? Hm?
[grunting]
ASH 'Nurse Joy,
please, help Scatterbug.'
Sure. Take care of it,
Wigglytuff.
[FOCUSED]
‐ Now don't worry about a thing.
‐ Thanks a lot.
It looks like your Scatterbug
doesn't come
from around this area.
Huh? Wait, you can tell
just by looking?
Yes. Take a look up
at the screen.
[all gasp]
ASH
'Wow, Vivillon!'
SERENA
'But they all look different.'
NURSE JOY 'Vivillon have
many different patterns'
depending on where
they come from.
And there are many more
patterns than that.
Awesome!
In a similar way, Scatterbug
have slight differences too.
Wow!
I'd be very interested to know
where you found that Scatterbug.
‐ Well..
‐ 'I've got you!'
Whoa! Ah.
Now, don't make a move
or you'll be in a whole
lot more trouble
than you're already in.
[ANGRY]
Move?
You've already got me tied up!
Believe me, I know who you are!
If you have
the stolen Scatterbug
then you must work with Dolan,
the Pokémon smuggler.
‐ Pokémon smuggler?
‐ No way!
We were chasing after you
because we wanted
to help you, Officer Jenny.
On the way, we found a big cage
and Scatterbug
was coming out of it!
Then that means..
Somehow, the Pokémon smuggler
must've dropped the cage.
That's what I think.
Oh! I'm so sorry.
I'm always jumping
to conclusions
and then I mess things up.
[APOLOGETIC]
Don't worry. It's okay.
[all gasp]
NURSE JOY)
'Scatterbug's fine now.'
[HAPPY]
‐ Scatterbug!
‐ You're okay.
All that stuff
you were talking about earlier.
I never heard of a Pokémon
smuggler before.
Pokémon smugglers
are bad people
who steal and then sell
Pokémon online
to unscrupulous Pokémon
collectors the world over.
‐ First, they steal Pokémon?
‐ Then they sell them online?
Right.
Dolan's a Pokémon smuggler.
He specializes
in Vivillon
so he grabs
every Scatterbug and Spewpa
he can get
his thieving hands on.
So, he must be keeping
lots of them at his hideout.
All those poor, helpless
Scatterbug and Spewpa.
Yes, I'm sure he's got
countless Pokémon.
And once they evolve
into Vivillon
‐ he sells them at a premium.
‐ There's no excuse for that.
What an awful guy!
[ANGRY]
‐ The worst!
‐ He stinks!
‐ Disgusting!
‐ Hm.
Huh? Scatterbug
is getting restless.
[RESTLESS]/[SCARED]
[all gasp]
CLEMONT
'Look!'
[APPEARING]
[laughing]
I've never seen
a Pokémon evolve
right in front of my eyes!
Spewpa.
The Scatterdust Pokémon.
When Spewpa is attacked,
it scares its enemies away
'by stiffening and spreading
its fur like wings.'
[DETERMINED]
Ah..
Hey, since we just saw
Scatterbug evolve
could you teach me
about Evolution, please?
[EXCITED]
I can do that. No prob.
[PROUD]
Evolution is when
a Pokémon starts to glow
super bright
and transform, like.. Bam!
And that's when everyone goes,
"Wow, that's awesome!"
That's about all there is to it.
[EXASPERATED]
Okay, I don't get it at all.
I guess that's my cue
to take over.
There are some kinds of Pokémon
who change their shapes
after certain criteria are met,
and this is called Evolution.
For example,
Scatterbug evolves into Spewpa
and Spewpa evolves
into Vivillon.
There are several ways
to make Pokémon evolve
but the most common way is,
like with Vivillon
when they reach a certain level
and then evolve.
An alternative method
is by using an Evolution Stone.
For example, for Pikachu
to evolve into Raichu
it needs a Thunder Stone.
[JOYFUL]
Ah! It's so amazing
how they evolve.
Mm‐hm. Pokémon sure
are amazing.
I guess I've still got
a lot to learn.
Clemont was saying what I was
saying in a different way.
[DISAPPOINTED]
‐ You think?
‐ That was great.
‐ Thank you very much.
‐ Think nothing of it.
Impressive, eh? Hm?
'There seems to be something
in Spewpa's fur.'
Yeah, I wonder what it could be?
Let's take a closer look.
'It looks like
some sort of chip'
'that's used
for transmitting signals.'
‐ A signal? But for what?
‐ I know.
Dolan must have implanted
that chip
as a tracking device so he
could hunt down any Pokémon
that might get away from him!
SERENA
'Then he might be close by!'
Well, if he is,
I'll get him.
[DETERMINED]
[WORRIED]
‐ Huh? What's wrong?
‐ Spewpa's probably worried.
After all, Dolan is still
holding its friends captive.
You wanna get your friends
out of there, right?
[DETERMINED]
SERENA
'I've got a great idea!'
[SURPRISED]
First, we'll let Dolan
take Spewpa back
and then we'll follow, using
the transmitter's signal.
That way, he'll lead us
to the hideout
and all the Pokémon too.
And that'll make it easy
to rescue all of Spewpa's
stolen friends!
That's a great plan.
Do you think we can really
pull it off?
We happen to have
an inventor in the house.
Sounds like my cue
to get busy!
‐ Huh?
‐ Ha‐ha‐ha.
The future is now,
thanks to science!
'Clemontic Gear, On!'
I happen to have
the perfect invention
for just a situation like this
and here it is!
I like to call it
the Omni‐Directional
Super‐Sensitive Tracking Dish!
[gasps]
The name's better this time.
CLEMONT 'The first thing we need
to do is detect and memorize'
'the frequency
of the transmitter chip.'
We can then pinpoint
Spewpa's location
no matter where it goes.
'Power, on! See.
We're up and running.'
Awesome! Science is so amazing!
[EXCITED]
But, Dolan dropped
Scatterbug, right?
Remember, Scatterbug evolved
into Spewpa since then.
[CONFIDENT]
Don't worry. No problem.
Once he sees Scatterbug's chip
on Spewpa
it won't take him long
to figure everything out.
I feel uncomfortable
about all this.
Maybe we shouldn't be using
Spewpa as bait.
‐ It's dangerous.
‐ I'll just act as a decoy.
Well, if anybody could pull
it off, it's you.
‐ Thanks.
‐ 'Just a minute!'
I thought of this
so I wanna help!
Costume designing is what I do!
The master of makeup!
[AMAZED]
[CONFIDENT]
[gasps]
You definitely look like Spewpa
but you're a bit too big.
[DISAPPOINTED]
CLEMONT
'Plus, you won't be able to fit'
'inside the cage we found
Scatterbug in.'
[AGREEMENT]
Let's have Dedenne do it.
Yippie yay!
[CONCERNED]
You might just be the tiniest
bit too teeny.
Then how about using
my Chespin?
BONNIE
'It's just the right size!'
[EXCITED]
All we do now is wait
for Dolan to show up.
Unless he makes an appearance
the whole plan
will be rendered useless.
Dolan's a very greedy man.
He'll definitely come back
or he won't make all that money.
Once he makes his pickup,
we'll follow.
Then we can track him down
to his hideout.
Look. It's him.
[engine revving]
GROUP
Who's that Pokémon?
It's Scatterbug!
[tires screeching]
The signal from the chip's
coming from here somewhere.
Ah. There you are.
Is my precious merchandise
safe and sound?
[CURIOUS]
So you evolved
into a Spewpa, eh?
Though you do look
and sound a bit strange. Huh.
Maybe now you'll evolve
into a hugely profitable
Vivillon!
[laughing]
It looks like Dolan
bought the disguise.
‐ I know what I'm doing.
‐ Hm.
Off we go!
‐ Well, Clemont?
‐ My invention's working great!
‐ Ready to go?
‐ Yeah. Let's move it!
[breathing heavily]
Dolan just drove
into the forest.
OFFICER JENNY
'We can't lose him!'
Don't worry. As long as
the chip is sending a signal.
‐ 'Huh!'
‐ 'What's wrong?'
I don't know! What happened?
[explosion]
[grunting]
All right, then.
I'll just have to follow him.
‐ Thanks for your help.
‐ Huh?
Good luck!
[WORRIED]
Hey. We'll save all
your buddies, I promise.
[REASSURING]
Maybe your Fletchling
can search for him.
Yeah! Fletchling,
I choose you!
[APPEARING]
'I need you to look
for a vehicle.'
[EXCITED]
[CURIOUS]
Find it?
[EXCITED]
Show us where it is!
[URGENT]
What's wrong?
Maybe Dolan's hideout
is nearby.
Fletchling, did you find it?
[URGENT]
Great! Return!
That's definitely it!
Dolan's truck!
And no one's guarding
the hideout.
‐ Wonder where Officer Jenny is.
‐ Hm.
Let's sit tight for now.
But what if he escapes
while we're waiting for her?
‐ Let's go.
‐ Wait.
If Dolan sees us coming
who knows
what he'll do to the Pokémon?
Serena's right.
We need to make safely rescuing
the captive Pokémon
our first priority.
Then what are
we supposed to do?
We should find out
if anyone's inside.
Got it!
Now, Froakie, I choose you!
[APPEARING]
I need you to find out
if there's anyone
inside that building.
[DETERMINED]
If no one's in there,
give me this sign.
[FOCUSED]/[HAPPY]
[FOCUSED]
[EXERTION]
[CURIOUS]
[EXCITED]
Froakie's saying the coast
is all clear!
That means now's our chance.
Okay, let's get in there
and rescue the Pokémon.
Yay!
[EXCITED]
[DETERMINED]
[CONCERNED]
Hm? Something wrong?
[screaming]
[SHOCKED]
Pikachu! Everybody!
Well, well, well.
Guess I missed
a Pokémon and some kid.
‐ Dolan!
‐ How about that?
Heard of me, huh?
‐ Let all my friends go!
‐ Give me a break!
Nobody tricks me
and gets away with it!
You punks are responsible
for this, aren't you?
Oh. It's Chespin!
It was a rough ride
so the disguise fell off.
But I'll get even with you by
selling this little one too!
Huh!
‐ You're not doing that!
‐ You've got some mouth on ya!
'Now, hand over that Spewpa!'
[ANXIOUS]
Who's that Pokémon?
Diggersby.
The Digging Pokémon.
And the evolved form
of Bunnelby.
Diggersby can easily lift
a boulder weighing over a ton
'with its powerful ears.'
[PROUD]
[FOCUSED]
Wanna battle?
CLEMONT
'Diggersby's a Ground type!'
So Froakie's Water‐type moves
are super effective against it!
I know you can do it, Ash!
Don't lose
to a crook like him.
[URGENT]
Right! He's going down!
We'll just see about that.
Diggersby, Mud Shot!
[MUD SHOT MOVE]
Dodge, Froakie!
[DETERMINED]
Great! Use Bubble!
[BUBBLE MOVE]
[PAINED]
What? Use Dig!
[DIG MOVE]
Uh, it can come out
from anywhere.
Be careful and stay focused!
[FOCUSED]/[CONFUSED]
[APPEARING]
‐ 'Froakie!'
‐ Double Slap, let's go!
Froakie won't be able to dodge
if it's in the air!
[DOUBLE SLAP MOVE]/[PAINED]
Ah. You're doin' great.
Great? Prove them wrong
with Hammer Arm!
[HAMMER ARM MOVE]
Use Water Pulse
and counter that!
[WATER PULSE MOVE]
[DETERMINED]/[HAMMER ARM MOVE]
[PAINED]
[CONCERNED]
Froakie! Be strong!
Ha‐ha! Isn't that sweet?
Enough of this! Use Hammer Arm
and attack as hard as you can!
[HAMMER ARM MOVE]
Froakie! Are you okay?
[WEAK]
Hey, Spewpa. Don't worry.
I'm gonna keep you
safe, no matter what!
[HAMMER ARM MOVE]
[DETERMINED] / [HEADBUTT MOVE]
[PAINED]
Oh! Spewpa!
You're protecting both of us.
[DETERMINED]
Don't forget,
that's my merchandise!
Enough! Forget it!
Use Hammer Arm
and show that Spewpa
who it's messing with!
[PROTECT MOVE]
CLEMONT
'It's Spewpa's Protect!'
ASH
'Nice job, Spewpa!'
[STRING SHOT MOVE]
CLEMONT
'That's String Shot!'
‐ Wow, Spewpa. You're awesome.
‐ A Diggersby mummy.
[EXCITED]
What do you think
you're doing? Get out of that!
[DETERMINED]
Now, I think it's time
we finish this up!
Hey, Spewpa,
what's the matter?
Of course! When Spewpa starts
getting restless that means..
[EVOLVING]
SERENA
'It's evolving!'
[JOYFUL]
Wow. So cool!
BONNIE It has a
different pattern
than the Vivillon
Viola had!
[PROUD]
Pretty!
Gorgeous!
Vivillon's beauty
is what makes them
fetch such a high price!
Scatterbug and Spewpa, they're
all fantastic moneymakers!
[laughing]
Oh, man. That guy!
You only think of Pokémon
as a way to make money!
Hurry up and get rid
of that annoying kid
with the big mouth,
or I'll go nuts!
'Mud Shot! Go!'
CLEMONT
'It's Vivillon's Safeguard!'
That's great, Vivillon! Go!
[DETERMINED]
[STUN SPORE MOVE]
CLEMONT
'Oh! It's Stun Spore!'
[PAINED]
[DAZED]
Huh! Diggersby!
All right, I'll just
catch you myself!
Huh! What's that?
Officer Jenny!
Sorry to keep you waiting.
[APOLOGETIC]
No, you don't!
Stop. Or prepare
for an Electro Ball. See?
If you still think I'm gonna
listen to anything you say
give me a break!
Huh?
I'm starting to feel like
I should give up.
CLEMONT 'Vivillon's scales have
a soothing effect that calms
'an opponent's fighting spirit.'
Now, you're under arrest.
Ah. Okay, I give up.
Chespin, you were great.
[PROUD]
[CONFIDENT]
Yeah. Let's get the others
out of there.
Okay, everyone.
You're free now.
[HAPPY]
Vivillon looks really happy
to see its friends again.
It's great to see
all of you together.
[GRATEFUL]
[AMAZED]
[HAPPY]
Ha‐ha‐ha. Hey, everyone.
Don't get caught again.
[HAPPY]
Bye. See you again.
Ah! Vivillon are so beautiful.
NARRATOR With the
help of Officer Jenny
our heroes have stopped
the horrendous deeds
of Pokémon smuggler Dolan
and freed the
stolen Vivillon.
Now, the journey
to Cyllage City continues.
[theme music]